# DS2.9Project
# Project: ML Model that can classify the behavior of mice based on annotated video frames.

This project is perfect for 6 weeks worth of work for two main reasons. One is that I am still new to handling images with complex ML Models. It would be a great use of my time to really internalize how they work and what I can do with them so that I can carry that knowledge to future projects with ML models. Furthermore this project will also have me study how to work with the outputs of a ML model and how to properly tune a Model to get the exact type of results I want. Secondly, classification is a very varied topic and can be used for many different things. Starting with this project would not only give me a baseline understanding of working with a classification ML it would also create a base on which I can build future classification models. The minimum viable product is a model that can classify a single video of mice running around. The strech goal is a model that can classify any video of mice running around with a great degree of accuracy.

As stated before, the scope of this project fits with both my personal skill level as well as the 6 week timeline. The learning curves builds upon concepts introduced in the previous DS class I was a part of, and into more advanced topics that I would like to learn more about. The storage requirements for this project will also be simple, needing not more than enough space for a sequence of training and testing images, since the output of the model is simply a series of numbers in an array.

From all the articles I have read, people have developed plenty of ML Models that can tell the similarities and differences between two images. 
https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2020/11/popular-classification-models-for-machine-learning/ ; Talks about various classification models such as Random Forest, Naive Bayes and KNN.
https://builtin.com/data-science/supervised-machine-learning-classification ; An in-depth explination of classification models and supervised learning.
https://jivp-eurasipjournals.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s13640-019-0417-8 ; Research on image classification using a deep convolution network, in-depth analysis of how it works and its effectiveness.
https://thenextweb.com/news/a-beginners-guide-to-ai-computer-vision-and-image-recognition ; An overview of using ML Models for image recognition. Not very detailed but a decent enough starting point.
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0003347216303360 ; Article that talks about the applications of ML Models in classifying animal behavior.
https://machinelearningmastery.com/types-of-classification-in-machine-learning/ ; Explanation of four classification types that ML Models can do.

Over the course of the project I want to build a Model that will classify an annotated video of rats moving with behavioral tags. I plan on spending one and a half weeks on building the models. One week on fine-tuning the model. Half a week on preparing the model for presentation as well as any last minute changes that need to be done.

### Implemintation Process
The implementation took some time to put together. I started with the starter code presented with the data I had used and built off of that. There was a basic look through the structure of the data and a visualiser that creates animated videos showing the data in visual form. Both of these were invaluable in creating the actual model. First I chose Random Forest as my model and I started by working on a process to format the data in a way that the model would accept. This took a while and some research to figure out. I started by taking one sample segment of the data and breaking apart into an X_Set and a Y_set. Then I needed to reshape this data so that it would fit into the model itself. After brief bit research I found the format that the Random Forest uses to take in data, so I used an algorithm to convert by X_Set and Y_set to the proper configuration. After a few tries the model accepted the modified data. Then I went to work on making the entire proccess an algorithim I could apply to all the data I needed for the model. This process was fairly simple since all the hard lifing was done during the last couple steps. Once that was done, I created a pipeline to automatically read, format and feed the data into the model. Now, I began tuning the hyper paramteres for the model, by using Scikitlearn's in built evaluation functions, I tracked the accurcy of my model through each iteration, slowly changing each hyper parameter and making note of how that affected my model. Now after a while of tuning, I found a set that gives a decent enough accuracy score. So then I took another type of model, reused the piple line for it, and tuned its hyperparamters until I got satisfoactory results. Though the new model is not has good as my original one.

### Running the Model
Running the model is simple. Open up the jupyter notebook and run each cell one after the other. Unfortunently I cannot provide the original data I have used for this model because it was part of a Data Science contest and I cannot freely distribute it.
